Welcome for the extreme lessons are going to be studying work energy. Work energy. As a method to solve kinetics problems. And basically it just takes Newton's 2nd law and integrates it with respect to visitation. And agreed Newton's. Second law. With respect to position. We have the other girl. D.s.. This is just. Force through a distance so you can recall that that is for work. And that's going to be equal to one to have him. Be squared. Evaluated pro position one to position 2 and that term is just. Energy. So if we look at both forces and moments or couples. We can say that the inner all. S one to s 2. D.s.. Is equal to one have. M.v. squared. Velocity 2 squared. Minus one have. To be squared over the loss of the one and that's where you put a subscript with those velocities because it's a lossy of the center mass. He she. Was on an m v g. One. Misses 2. And a rotation all we can write the same thing but now we're talking about 3 to one that they needed to. Cope all. The thing. Is equal to one have I cheat or Mesmo been there show. Times Omega 2 squared minus one have. By the. Way one square. And so if we combine these both. We end up with. One being equation that's a drawback to work energies we only are going to have one equation so we can only Saul for $1.00 and 0. And so we're going to have. One have. Him v g one squared squared. Plus one to have by she may go one squared. Plus the end of her all. S one s 20. Do yes. Mostly and a girl made a one. To if they were to. See dot de Theda. And that's all going to be equal to then one have m v g 2 squared. Plus one to have. The sorry when have. I. Only get 2 square I g. 2. Square. Where these 2 terms. Will call t one and that's our initial. Kinetic energy. Each 2 terms. We call work. From one to 2. Or w one to 2 or work. By force. One to 2. And then these last 2 terms. Are going to be key to. Our final could change. So in short a and we can simply say. The one was. W.. From one to 2 is equal to t 2. And that's our work energy. Equation. So now we have to figure out is what actually does work in our problems and we're going to kind of make a list here of things that do work. And that. Do. Work. Work. So things that do work let's make a list of those and remember work is forced through just in so the force has to actually travel through a distance to count as work and so our 1st sign would be a weight as long as the weight changes in height its location changes in high even it's going to have work if it just goes horizontally there's no work involved because of forces vertical and distances whore's on. The next would be version. Of our friction force. Is the opposite of the motion so we're going to get force through a distance. And next thing that does work would be a spring. So by stretching our compression a spring. We're going to have work occur. Right next item is a variable or constant force. So as long as that forces move through distance. And the last item or less is an apply couple. And I could be both variable or. Constant. And just so we're sure we've got a good list here we want to listen things that we're going to come across that don't do work. The. First one is a normal force. A normal force is something that's perpendicular to the surface and whatever motion is going to occur is going to be parallel to the server so therefore no work will occur. The next thing that does not do work. Are the forces in a pin reaction and. Those forces don't go anywhere. And our 3rd item that does do does no work is the friction on the no slip wheel. Friction. And. You know with. The so let's keep those in mind when we're solving these problems what does work and what doesn't to work and we're going to go separately one by one looking at each of these 5 things that do work and how we will calculate the work that step. 