2 blocks a and b. have a mass of 5 kilograms and 10 kilograms effectively but the pulley can be treated as a disk of mass 3 kilograms and radius there 0.15 meters determine the acceleration of block a they got the mass of the cord and he's slipping on the public so we're going to approach is by taking it in 3 steps 1st with block and then block b. then the pole so we're going to do the free body diagram is equal to the kinetic diagram in all of them so we'll start with block a and we'll do the free body diagram which is going to have the weight of a I do on it and the tension and. We're going to equal to the kinetic diagram this is going to have a mass times acceleration and since a is moving in the upper direction we're going to have it here and a new light so we can set the equation up by saying some of the forces in the y. direction is equal to. 5 and this is a block away so the sum of the forces in the y. direction is tension I point out there is as positive minus point you see for 2 and. So. Minus it gives us the mass of 5 kilograms so we can convert that to being weight by multiplying by $9.00. 5 kilograms over here times. So we're going to relate. To Alpha using this equation the reason why we want to get it in terms of Alpha is because when we do the draw on it's going to be equal to 0 alpha so we want to go all in one term so we're going to convert this now. To be Alpha are so this will be equal to 5 kilograms times our which is 0.15 meters times out. So it's minus $49.00 so our 1st equation is going to be t.a.a. is equal to 0.75 Alpha plus 14 now we can do block b. So the free body diagram is going to be the weight of b. times the tension in b. we're going to go to the kinetic diagram which is going to be going downwards because the block is moving downwards it's going to be a b g y So when we do the sum of the forces in the x. sorry in the wider action is equal to and. This is going to be TB This is positive as up so TB minus the weight of b. is equal to negative. B. Q Why it's negative because it's going down words so it's in the negative direction so we're going to have to be which is unknown minus 0 weight which is 10 kilograms so mass times and 9.8 which is going to give us a negative 10 kilograms times which switching us to Alpha Our So it's going to be times Alpha and R.'s 0.15 meters so here TB is going to be equal to negative $1.00 Alpha plus $98.00 this is our 2nd equation and now we can do the drop. So here the free body diagram. Is. Tension. Tension to be. And that's. Because it's pinned. To the kinetic diagram going to be. X. So here we're going to take the moment about so we don't have to deal with any of the reactions in the middle so some of the moments about where do clockwise is positive is equal to. Alpha So the moment about in our free body diagram has to be in the positive direction and it's point 50 meters away minus because us opposite minus 38 times point 15 as well this equal to high. Of Here. Is an equal to one half mass times the radius squared so in this case it tells us that the mass is 3 kilograms so we're going to do so I was going to be one half 3 times point 15 squared so here to make it easier we're going to divide everything by point 15 so t. be minus t. a is equal to one half 3 times point $15.00. Which is going to be equal to 0.225. Now we can relate our equation one and Equation 2 into this 3rd equation so we can solve for our one unknown which is alpha so t v is negative $1.00 Alpha plus $98.00 minus r.t.a. which is going to be 0.75 alpha. Plus for a night which is going to be equal to 0.225. So here it's going to be $49.00 is equal to $2.00. And will determine that our Alpha is equal to $19.00 radian per 2nd squared and we're not done here because it's asking us for the acceleration of block a so we used this equation to relate acceleration in alpha so the Excel ration is going to be $19.00. Times the radius which is 0.15 meters so will determine that our Alpha are Excel aeration of block a is 2.97 meters per 2nd squared. 